# SCRDet++: Detecting Small, Cluttered and Rotated Objects via Instance-Level Feature Denoising and Rotation Loss Smoothing

> Xue Yang, TPAMI

The difficulty is further pronounced when the objects are rotated, as traditional detectors often routinely locate the objects in horizontal bounding box such that the region of interest is contaminated with background or nearby interleaved objects.

In this paper, we first innovatively introduce the idea of denoising to object detection. Instance-level denoising on the feature map is performed to enhance the detection to small and cluttered objects.

To handle the rotation variation, we also add a novel IoU constant factor to the smooth L1 loss to address the long standing boundary problem, which to our analysis, is mainly caused by the periodicity of angular (PoA) and exchangeability of edges (EoE).

By combing thest two features, our proposed detector is termed as SCRDet++. Extensive experiments are performed on large aerial images public datasets DOTA, DIOR, UCAS-AOD as well as natural image dataset COCO, scene text dataset ICDAR2015, small traffic light dataset BSTLD and our released S2TLD by this paper.

Object detection is one of the fundamental tasks in computer vision and various general-purpose detectors, x, x, x based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been devised.

However, most existing detectors do not pay particular attention to some common aspects for robust object detection in the wild: small size, cluttered arrangement and arbitrary orientations.

These challenges are especially pronounced for aerial image which has become an important area for detection in practice, for its various civil applications, e.g. resource detection, environment monitoring, and urban planning.

It shall be noted that thest three aspects also prevail in other scenarious e.g. natural images and scene text.

- Small objects. Aerial images often contain small objects overwhelmed by complex surrounding scenes.

- Cluttered arrangement. Objects e.g. vehicles and ships in aerial images are often densely arranged, leading to interclass feature coupling and intra-class feature boundary blur.

- Arbitrary orientations. Objects in aerial images can appear in various orientations. Rotation detection in necessary especially considering the high aspect ratio issue: the horizontal bounding box for a rotated object is more loose than an aligned rotated one, such that the box contains a large portion of background or nearby cluttered objects as disturbance. Moreover, it will be greatly affected by non-maximum suppression, see Fig. 1.

As described above, the small/cluttered objects problem can be interleaved with the rotation variance.

In this paper, we aim to address the first challenge by seeking a new way of dismissing the noisy interference from both background and other foreground objects.

For small and cluttered object detection, we devise a denoising module and in fact denoising has not been studied for objection detection.

We observe two common types of noises that are orthogonal to each other: i) image level noise, which is object-agnostic, and ii) instance level noise, specifically often in the form of mutual interference between objects, as well as background interference.

Such noises are ubiquitous and pronounced in aerial images which are remotely sensed.

In this paper, we explore the way of performing instance level denoising (InLD) and particularly in the feature map (i.e. latent layers' outputs by CNNs), for robust detection.

The hope is to reduce the inter-class feature coupling and intra-class interference, meanwhile blocking background interference. To this end, a novel InLD component is designated to decouple the features of different object categories into their respective channels approximately.

Meanwhile, in the spatial domain, the features of the object and background are enhanced and weakened, respectively.

It is worth noting that the above idea is conceptually similar to but inherently different from the recent efforts for image level feature map denosiing (ImLD), which is used as a way of enhancing the image recognition model's robustness against attack, rather than location sensitice object detection.

On the other hand, as discussed above, as a closely interleaved problem to small/cluttered object detection, accurate rotation estimation is addressed by devising a novel IoU-Smooth L1 loss.

It is motivated by the fact that the existing state-of-the-art regression-based rotation detection methods e.g. five-parameter regression suffer from the issue of discontinuous boundaries which is inherently caused by the periodicity of angular (PoA) and exchangeability of edges (EoE).

The preliminary content of this paper has partially appeared in the conference version, with the detector named SCRDet (Small, Cluttered, and Rotated Object Detector). In this journal version, we extend our improved detector called SCRDet++.

1) To our best knowledge, we are the first to develop the concept of instance level noise (at least in the context of object detection), and design a novel Instance-Level Denoising (InLD) module in feature map. This is realized by supervised segmentation whose ground truth is approximately obtained by the bounding box in object detection. The proposed module effectively addresses the challenges in detecting small size, arbitrary direction, and dense distribution objects with little computation and parameter increase.

2) Towards more robust handling of arbitrarily-rotated objects, an improved smooth L1 loss is devised by adding the IoU constant factor, which is tailored to solve the boundary problem of the rotating bounding box regression.

3) We create and release a real-world traffic light dataset: S2TLD. It consists pf 5,786 images with 14,130 traffic light instances across five categories: red, green, yellow, off and wait on.

4) Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on public datasets for rotation detection in complex scenes like the aerial images. Experiments also show that our InLD module, which can be easily plugged into existing architectures, can notably improve detection on different tasks.

--------------------

SCRDet++: Xue Yang的第8篇论文SCRDet的补充版，针对的是小目标、扎堆的实例、旋转实例和夸张的纵横比

在特征图执行实例级去噪以增强对小而杂乱对象的检测

在smooth L1 loss中添加一个新的IoU常数因子，进一步解决boundary问题：主要因为periodicity of angular (PoA)和exchangeability of edges (EoE)造成的

以上两条结合组成SCRDet++

--------------------

密集排列的物体通常会有inter-class类间特征耦合 还有 intra-class类内特征边界模糊

小对象和扎堆的实例会造成旋转方差交错；寻找一种方法来消除背景和其他对象的前景对象的噪声干扰是第一点目标

- 针对旋转的对准rotate align，设计了一种新的Loss。

- 针对小和扎堆的实例设计一个新的去噪模块。

    有两种正交的常见噪声类型：
    1. 与对象无关的图像级噪声
    2. 实例级噪声，特别是通常以对象之间的相互干扰以及背景干扰的形式出现

- 做出了一种实例级去噪的方法InLD，在特征图（即CNN的潜在层输出）中，以实现鲁棒检测；希望能够减少类间特征耦合和类内干扰，同时阻断背景干扰；将不同对象类别的特征近似解耦到各自的通道中

- 在空间域中，分别增强和削弱了目标和背景的特征

上述想法在概念上与图像级特征图去噪（ImLD）相似，但是，ImLD用于增强图像识别模型抗攻击的鲁棒性，而不是位置敏感对象检测

然后设计一个新的IoU-smooth-L1 loss，来解决PoA和EoE





